# Assignment 1

## API description
The assignment is to build an API and an API user control/administration system.

The API will allow users to retrieve data from a dataset related to the Olympic Games and their athletes. Things like seeing data of specific athletes or countries. It can be found on [here (Kaggle)](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/andreshg/countries-iso-codes-continent-flags-url).

It will have a user control system, where users will have a certain amount of tokens, and they will consume tokens as they use the API endpoints. They will start off with some points, buy will have to "buy" more to continue using the API.

### API versioning
All endpoints start with `/v<version number>/...`
E.g., `/v1/user`
Having versioning for the API means we can update our endpoints without making older versions outdated.

### Users
Users should have an email, a password, a user-id (generated by the server) and an amount of tokens.

### Tokens
The user will have a certain amount of tokens. To make it simple, 1 API call costs 1 token.
This means the user will consume points, and will have to fill up every now and then.

### Data types
Data endpoints should support XML and JSON as return type. Other endpoints only needs to support JSON.

Where it makes sense, you should/could also add CSV.
__Bonus:__ Where relevant, support PNG as a bar graph/plot of top 10 countries/athletes/sports-whatevers.

### Administrative endpoints
- `POST /user` create user
- `GET /user` return users
- `GET /user/<user-id>` return user
- `PUT|PATCH /user/<user-id>` update user
- `DEL /user/<user-id>` delete user

- `POST /tokens` add tokens to the user

You may need more user endpoints. Do this when needed.

### Dataset endpoints
The Olympic games dataset has a bunch of data. We would like to be able to run some queries on it with our API. For example:

- `GET /country/<country-id>` retrieve results from specified country
- `GET /athlete/<ahtlete-id>` retrieve results from specified athlete
- `GET /sport/<sport-id>` retrieve results from specified sport

- `POST /event` create a new event/participation of a single athlete

#### Data endpoints return values
It is up to you what kind of data, metadata and structure you return, and how to find id's. E.g., `GET /country/NOR` might return

```JSON
{
    "<sport-1>": [100, 50, 30, 20],  // 20 bronze, 30 silver, 50 gold, 100 in total
    "<sport-2>": ...  // for each sport (or each sport where total_medals > 0)
}
```

but you can also use another form.

#### Querying
This assignment will only require the `/sport/<sport-id>` to support relevant querying parameters, though you may add it for other endpoint as well. For example,

```raw
GET /sport/ski-jumping?country=NOR&year=2014&medals=gold
```

should return the amount of gold medals Norway (NOR) has won at ski jumping in 2018. You implement _how_ the queries are actually ran backend. 


## Hosting
The systems should use FastAPI for its API(s) and be hosted on Render. (Note that much of the development can be done locally.)

You should be using a database for storing the dataset during while running. You decide which kind of database fits you — or this project — best.

If using the whole dataset is problematic when running on Render, you may reduce the dataset as need be.


## Programming environment
The system/subsystems should be written in Python.

It should be tested using pytest, flake8 and mypy. Include good-ish unit tests for helper functions.

It should include some API endpoint tests as well, in another script. This does not have to be very complex, but should do some basic stuff, like cheching that adding and consuming tokens actually affect the tokens.
Use would be something like: Launch API, wait a bit and then run test script. Tests passed = all good.


## Coding style
Follow PEP 8 style guides, that is, make sure flake8 approves of your code. Feel free to ignore rules when you find it needed. Don't write functions with 100+ lines of code. Etc.


## Documentation
The code should include docstrings for files, classes (if used) and functions/methods.
They do not have to follow standardized docstring formats, but should be relatively consistent throughout the project.
